Just like with the annotations that you use to customize
mappings when using the code-first approach,
there are many different things you can customize using a bindings
file when you use the schema-first approach.
Let's take a look at a number of different things that you can customize.
We're going to look at the following topics.
How to specify the package name in the bindings file
instead of on the command line,
how to customize the names of generated classes with a prefix or suffix,
how to map a complex type to a class that you wrote
yourself instead of a class generated by xjc,
how to map a simple type to a class,
how to customize the name of a field or property in a class,
how to specify that you don't want a field to be a JAXBElement if its
corresponding XmlElement has minOccurs=0 and nillable=true in the XSD.
Let's go to example ps-jaxb-20-bindings in the IDE.
We have our purchaseOrder.
xsd file.
Now let's add a bindings file again with the name bindings.
xjb.
As you already saw in the previous clip,
this is an XML file with a jaxb:bindings element as the root element.
We define prefixes for the jaxb:bindings namespace and also
for the standard XML Schema namespace,
and we have to add a version attribute to the root element.
According to the JAXB standard,
the only allowed values for the version attribute are 1.
0 and 2.
0.
We are using 2.
0 here.
Note that this does not directly correspond to the
version of JAXB that you are using.
Java 8 comes with JAXB version 2.
2, and Java 9 comes with JAXB version 2.
3.
The version number that you specify here is really the version number
of the jaxb:bindings schema that you are using.
Within the bindings root element of this file,
we can specify a number of bindings declarations.
Let's add one that refers to the purchaseOrder.
xsd since we want to customize bindings for that XSD.
Within this bindings element,
we can add a schemaBindings element to specify a number of
customizations for the whole schema.
One of the things we can add there is a package element to
specify the name of the package that we want the target
namespace of the schema to map to.
Remember that in the previous examples where we used xjc,
we had to provide the package name on the command line using the -p option.
When we specify the package name here in the bindings file,
we don't have to provide it on the command line anymore.
Another thing that you can add to the schema bindings
element is the nameXmlTransform element.
Using this element,
you can configure that you want the classes that are generated for XML Schema
types and root level elements to have a prefix or suffix.
For example,
I can add a jaxb:typeName element here to configure that I want
the names of all classes that correspond to complex or simple
types to end with the word Type.
Likewise,
I can add a jaxb:elementName element to do the same for root level elements.
When I now generate the classes again by running xjc,
I don't have to specify the package name anymore,
but I do have to use the -b option to tell xjc to use the bindings file.
As you see,
the generated classes for the complex and simple types now all have
names that end with Type such as AddressType,
CustomerType, ItemType, etc.
For the PurchaseOrder element,
which is defined in the XSD as a root level element
with an anonymous complexType, we now get a class named PurchaseOrderElement.
Let's continue with the next customization.
Suppose that, for whatever reason,
you are not happy with one of the classes that xjc generates,
and you would rather want to write the Java code for this class yourself.
For example,
one of the things that's not so nice is that XJC generates a wrapper
class for the items element over purchaseOrder.
One thing we could do is to write a class for the
purchaseOrder element ourselves,
which has an items field with an XmlElementWrapper annotation,
and then tell JAXB to use this class instead of automatically generating one.
I'll copy the PurchaseOrder class that we wrote ourselves in one of the earlier
examples to this example and rename it to MyPurchaseOrder.
To customize how JAXB handles the PurchaseOrder element,
I'll add a jaxb:bindings element to the bindings file
inside the bindings element for the schema.
On this new bindings element,
I'll set a node attribute with an XPath expression that points to the
element declaration of the PurchaseOrder element in the XSD.
Inside this bindings element,
I can now specify customizations specifically for the PurchaseOrder element.
To tell JAXB that I wanted to use the MyPurchaseOrder
class instead of generating a class,
I'll add a jaxb:class element here with a ref attribute that contains
the fully qualified domain name of my custom class.
Note that my IDE makes the ref attribute red because for some
reason it thinks this attribute is not allowed here,
but that looks like a bug in the IDE.
When I run xjc again,
I see that it now indeed doesn't generate a class for
the PurchaseOrder element anymore.
Earlier in the course,
you learned how you can use the XmlValue annotation to map a
class to a simple type instead of a complex type.
When you generate Java classes from an XSD,
then simple types will normally either be mapped to Java enums in
case the simple type has enumeration facets,
or to the Java type that corresponds to the base type of the simple type.
To see this, let's add a simpleType named phoneNumber to the XSD.
The base type for the phoneNumber type is xs:string,
and it will have an xs:pattern restriction that says that a
phoneNumber must consist of exactly 10 digits.
Let's also add a phoneNumber element that uses this
type to the customer element.
When I now run xjc again and look at class CustomerType,
I see that a field phoneNumber has been added,
which is a string, which is the base type of the simpleType phoneNumber.
Suppose that I would want to have a separate class
generated for the simpleType phoneNumber.
It's possible to do that by adding another bindings element to the
bindings file with a node attribute that points to the phoneNumber
type and adding a jaxb:class element in there.
When I generate the classes again using xjc,
I will now get a separate class for the phoneNumber type,
which has one field with an XmlValue annotation.
In class CustomerType, this type is now used for the phoneNumber field.
You've now seen a few customizations that are possible for the whole schema,
or for specific complex or simple type.
It is, of course,
also possible to customize things for specific fields or properties in a type.
Let's quickly look at some examples of that.
Suppose that, for example, in our Java code,
we would want to use a custom name for a field that is different from
the name of the corresponding element in the XSD.
For example,
suppose that in class ItemType we want the name of the
field productName to be productDescription.
You probably won't be surprised by how you can do that.
We add another bindings element that refers to the
corresponding element declaration in the XSD,
and then we add a jaxb:property element there with a name
attribute to specify the custom name.
There is one more customization that I want to show you right now.
Remember that in the XSD,
the comment field of the Item element is defined with
both minOccurs=0 and nillable=true,
which causes xjc to generate a field which is of type
JAXBElement of String in class ItemType.
Maybe in your application you don't really care about being able to see if
the element is absent or explicitly set to nil in the XML,
and the JAXBElement wrapper is just inconvenient.
There is a way to tell xjc that it shouldn't generate the JAXBElement wrapper,
and just generate a field of type String instead.
You can do this by setting the generateElementProperty
attribute of the property customization for the comment
element to false in the bindings file.
When you do this and run xjc again,
you'll see that the comment field in class ItemType is now just
a String instead of a JAXBElement of String.
And now the very last point of this clip.
In these examples,
you saw how you can customize mappings for the whole schema for
specific types and elements and for specific fields.
It is also possible to specify some customizations at a global level.
You do this by using a globalBindings element in the bindings file.
These customizations will take effect for all schemas,
types,
and elements that xjc processes unless they are
overridden in a more narrow scope.
In the last example,
we disabled the generation of our JAXBElement wrapper for one specific field.
Maybe you'll want to disable this for all fields in all types.
You could do that by specifying
generateElementProperty=false on the globalBindings element.
That's, of course,
more convenient than having to specify it for each
individual field that needs this.
There's much more that you can customize than what you
saw in the examples in this clip,
but you now have an idea of how customizing bindings works
when you use the schema-first approach. There will be more examples in the next clips.